Step 1: Cut scallions
First, we chop our scallions (2 stalk) to be added as garnish at the end. This gives our dish more color and flavor.


Step 2: Boil water in the wok
Put the steamer rack in the wok, and place your bowl on top of the rack.

Ideally, your bowl should have enough clearance between it and the wok for your fingers, so you can easily remove it when it's piping hot.

Pour enough water so that the bowl is about a third or halfway submerged in the wok. This helps with more effective heat transfer.

Take the bowl out, and place the lid on the wok.

Set the stove to high heat, and let the water come to a boil.


Step 3: Start mixing eggs
Crack the eggs into a bowl, and add salt (0.50 tsp), chicken bouillon (0.50 tsp), and oil (1 tsp). Start mixing the eggs with a fork or chopstick.


Step 4: Prepare warm water and mix with eggs
This is a really important step that determines the steamed eggs’ final fate of silkiness.

We're going to mix warm water (2 cup) with the eggs (0.5 cups per egg).

I really had to probe my dad for an exact temperature range. He legit got annoyed when I asked him, and said "it just needs to be warm!"

The ideal range is about 35° to 45° C or 95· to 113° F. If you don't have a food thermometer laying around, you can microwave the water for about 45 to 60 seconds.

It should be warm to the touch, but not unbearably hot.

Pour a quarter of the warm water (0.50 cup) into the eggs, and mix until bubbles start foaming at the top.

Pour the remaining warm water (1.5 cup), and continue mixing until you see bubbles again.


Step 5: Start steaming eggs
Make sure that the water is boiling in the wok and that your stove is still on high heat.

If it's boiling, remove the lid, and carefully place your bowl inside. You may want to use an oven mitt.

Pour your egg and water mixture into the bowl, and cover the wok.


Step 6: Boil, simmer, wait
After you cover the wok, leave the stove on high heat until the water starts boiling again. This should take anywhere from 1 to 4 minutes.

Once boiling, lower the heat to a simmer, and cook for about 8 minutes.

Chef's Tip: As the dish nears completion, you can test its doneness by gently shaking the wok. The egg should shake with a gelatin-like consistency.

There are more variables for how long to steam eggsthat you can fine tune with more practice:

The thickness and material of the bowl you use
Your "simmering" heat
For example, during this round of instructions, we used a ceramic bowl. My dad usually uses metallic bowls, which have better heat transfer. For metallic bowls, he just turns the heat completely off for the remaining cook time.


Step 7: Add garnishes and seasonings
Once the dish is done steaming, remove the lid. Add scallion and white pepper (1 dash) to taste.

Some people prefer to mix the white pepper into the egg batter. My dad prefers adding at the end.

Feel free to get creative here with soy sauce, oyster sauce, other garnishes, and etc.


Step 8: Remove bowl from wok
We're done! It's time to remove the steamed eggs from the wok.

Depending on how much clearance you have (and pain tolerance), put on oven mitts and carefully lift the bowl out of the wok.

You may need to use the spatula as a lever for more clearance.

If you're a BOSS like my dad, you can use your bare hands. I am not a boss. I use oven mitts.